first of all I have a very heavy pot you
need a heavy pot that's not going to
catch at the bottom because there's
going to be a lot of sugar in this and
you don't want the sugar to caramelize
and catch at the bottom so the pot
should be heavy if you happen to have a
pot that you use for preserving making
something like strawberry jam then that
will work just as well so into this very
heavy pot I'm going to put one and a
quarter pounds of sour cooking apples
now India of course this would not be
apples it would be green mangoes which
are also Tsar
but since you can't get green mangoes
apples work very well so all the apples
go in then I'm also going to put in
peaches and apricots here I have four
ounces of dried apricots which go in you
can leave these apricots whole four
ounces of dried peaches these peaches
are rather large so I've cut them into
four pieces each I've coated them they
go in then there are two ounces here of
sultanas you can put more if you like
more and also there's a garlic and
ginger flavor so there are six cloves of
garlic here which have been mashed very
well to a pulp and also to one inch
cubes of ginger that have been peeled
and grated and this is fresh ginger that
goes in now we come to the contrast of
flavors so we have salt sweet salty and
hot flavors for the sour there is
vinegar this is 14 fluid ounces of white
wine vinegar that goes in and 14 ounces
of castor sugar and then there's salt
and hot so there's 2 teaspoons of salt
and 1/2 teaspoon of cayenne
stir it around mix it and then it's
ready to be cooked when you cook you can
start on high heat that's alright
because there's a fair amount of liquid
but watch it don't go away if you say oh
there's a lot of liquid I can leave it
for a while where you can't because as
it thickens it tends to catch at the
bottom so keep giving it a stir every
now and then and as as it cooks turn
down the heat very slightly so that
you're always adjusting your heat to the
thickness of the chutney this chutney
will cook down in about 30 minutes and
after 30 minutes you should have
something that looks like this you can
see there's a thick glaze and shine on
it and the chutney of course you must
remember it's going to thicken as it
cooled so you have to allow for that and
cook it to just the point slightly less
thick than you want it to end up and
once you finish cooking it you need to
bottle the chutney and here I have a jar
it's it's a preserving jar and you put
the chutney in it and remember to put a
lid on this not made of metal metal will
corrode so you need some other kind of
plastic lined or glass top lid and then
the chutney can be stored really in any
cool place